## Post #1
- Username: interface
- Rank: ultra-n00b
- Number of posts: 1
- Joined date: Wed Jul 05, 2006 2:47 pm
- Post datetime: 2006-07-05T07:08:01+00:00
- Post Title: .AIM Image format

First of all, english is not my native language...    

That's what i figured out up to now:
.AIM means Ascaron Image Format and was developed by Ascaron for their new release "Darkstar One". The images stored in this files are simple 2D graphics.
My problems with decoding the format now are:
1) I cannot find any advice for the image size in the file header
2) the color format... most files contain a string "IMTC32", other "IMSLD32". So i've googled for those, but didn't find anything about this.
Maybe these strings doesn't stand for the color format...

The file data always starts at offset 40. It's simple one pixel after the other, line by line stored. So you can easily extract the colour values for each pixel. But without the correct color format, i always get wrong colours.

Some AIM files can be found here:
[http://sv.h774874.serverkompetenz.net/aimfiles.zip](http://sv.h774874.serverkompetenz.net/aimfiles.zip)
Maybe there is one who can help me?
## Post #2
- Username: jasmine
- Rank: VIP member
- Number of posts: 77
- Joined date: Tue May 10, 2005 1:07 pm
- Post datetime: 2006-07-06T03:55:35+00:00
- Post Title: .AIM Image format

The files with IMTC32 in the 64 byte header are 32 bit R8G8B8A8 textures.  That is one byte for each color plus alpha.  The size of the texture is an unsigned long int located at byte 60 of the header.  Immediately following the texture are two unsigned long int representing the width and height respectively.

Laters,
jasmine
