## Post #1
- Username: Koralan
- Rank: n00b
- Number of posts: 12
- Joined date: Thu Jan 10, 2019 10:28 pm
- Post datetime: 2019-01-15T17:44:19+00:00
- Post Title: *.bimage and *.dct - Wolfenstein TNO and TOB - need help

Hi everyone!

I'm extracted files from both Wolfenstein TNO and TOB by using Unpakke (Or this is not a right method and there is a better one?) in order to get original in-game textures. Next, I tried to use Noesis scripts by Acewell [TOB script](http://forum.xentax.com/viewtopic.php?f=18&t=12853&hilit=wolfenstein+bimage) + [TNO script](https://zenhax.com/viewtopic.php?f=7&t=7550&hilit=bimage).

I moved the scripts into noesis436\plugins\python and tried to open .bimage files , using Noesis, but got "file could not be previewed" message. 

I ask somebody to help me and explain - that I have done wrong? I'm not a computer type and easily could made some silly mistakes, which are not so obvious to me.

Also I extracted *.dct files, which, I think, are in-game concepts, but I have no idea on how to open them and will be very grateful for any help with them.

P.S. [I already wrote about this problem](http://forum.xentax.com/viewtopic.php?f=10&t=19301&p=147471#p147471), but I afraid - not in the right section of the website, so, I made a topic in "Graphic file formats".
P.P.S. Sorry for any grammatical mistakes in post - I'm not a native speaker and only learning the language.

Hoping for help,
Koralan
[examples of files X.rar](https://xentaxbackup.github.io/file/15478_examples of files X.rar)
## Post #2
- Username: Acewell
- Rank: VIP member
- Number of posts: 1330
- Joined date: Wed Nov 05, 2008 7:16 pm
- Post datetime: 2019-01-15T19:24:23+00:00
- Post Title: *.bimage and *.dct - Wolfenstein TNO and TOB - need help

your bimage samples are empty, no data, and the dct file has what looks
like a jpeg header, maybe try change the extension and see what you get.
## Post #3
- Username: Koralan
- Rank: n00b
- Number of posts: 12
- Joined date: Thu Jan 10, 2019 10:28 pm
- Post datetime: 2019-01-16T15:08:36+00:00
- Post Title: *.bimage and *.dct - Wolfenstein TNO and TOB - need help

> Reply from Acewell
>
> your bimage samples are empty, no data, and the dct file has what looks
like a jpeg header, maybe try change the extension and see what you get.

Thank you very much! The problem was in the fact, that Unpakke extracts only *.index files, but there is no textures at all. I found a way to extract *.resources, and used your script on them, and get results!

But, as it turned out, I was not right from the beginnig - the main mass of textures is stored in *.pages files, not in the *.index or even *.resources. In *.resources I found only several texture files.

After yet another searching on forums, I discovered a topic with a program called "vtex". I disabled the ASLR, like was said in thread, but I'm afraid, that I misunderstand the part with "reloaded exe". I downloaded the "reloaded exe", replaced the original one in the game directory, put there vtex and tried to type in cmd the following:

D:\Spiele\WolfensteinTheNewOrder\vtex.exe D:\Spiele\WolfensteinTheNewOrder\virtualtextures\chunk1_vmtr.pages D:\Spiele\WolfensteinTheNewOrder\

I got the "extracting..." message and... nothing. What I have done wrong?
[14.png](https://xentaxbackup.github.io/file/15491_14.png)
