## Post #1
- Username: rengareng
- Rank: veteran
- Number of posts: 131
- Joined date: Fri Feb 18, 2011 5:23 pm
- Post datetime: 2011-04-11T16:12:32+00:00
- Post Title: .dff Font Files of Psychonauts Game

Here is the font file of game. These are not a dds file I think. Maybe they are but i didnot understand. There can be additional knowledge about chars.
Thanks for any help.
[Fonts.7z](https://xentaxbackup.github.io/file/4206_Fonts.7z)
## Post #2
- Username: saidsrc
- Rank: ultra-n00b
- Number of posts: 6
- Joined date: Mon Apr 18, 2011 10:38 pm
- Post datetime: 2011-06-13T21:01:49+00:00
- Post Title: .dff Font Files of Psychonauts Game

You can edit the font textures with TexMod. Not that files you attached but the texture that used by game while runtime. However the result is the same.
## Post #3
- Username: rengareng
- Rank: veteran
- Number of posts: 131
- Joined date: Fri Feb 18, 2011 5:23 pm
- Post datetime: 2011-06-16T19:08:09+00:00
- Post Title: .dff Font Files of Psychonauts Game

no need for TexMod. I figured file structure of .dff files. Font file is also here. But, just alpha channel, so you should add RGB channels for each byte. for all RGB: FFFFFF .  for example: if file is 8BFF03 new file will be: FFFFFF8B FFFFFFFF FFFFFF03. 
for char coordinates: left-up coordinate of squarer first X then Y . then, right bottom coordinates of same square first X then Y. next one heigth of char, above the underline align. 
for char array, index+1 is char code in ANSII and value in that index is order number in the char coordinates part.
I added hex workshop bookmark for Tahoma.dff file that is in my first post.
sorry if my english is not good enough
[.dff file.rar](https://xentaxbackup.github.io/file/4344_.dff file.rar)
## Post #4
- Username: TheKinq58
- Rank: beginner
- Number of posts: 23
- Joined date: Mon Sep 28, 2015 12:14 am
- Post datetime: 2016-01-13T21:27:25+00:00
- Post Title: .dff Font Files of Psychonauts Game

UP

I'm thinking to translate this game into Turkish. Would you supply me with the necessary tools?
## Post #5
- Username: shaolong
- Rank: ultra-n00b
- Number of posts: 1
- Joined date: Mon Jun 15, 2015 8:09 pm
- Post datetime: 2016-02-25T14:17:11+00:00
- Post Title: .dff Font Files of Psychonauts Game

I also psychonauts is the one person to translate for Japanese, but I'm working.However, it is very difficulty to create the dff.
I can also create a dff by multiplying the time, but the most best to Tool that generates a DFF from one image is distributed.
Please provide an IMAGE  to DFF Converter to us by all means.

PS:The data of around 2012 but will share the information because it was being analyzed part by volunteers.
I think I would help of something If people can understand look at the this. Although it is useless to me.....

> Text: Lua 4.0 modified binary
>
> 
>
> llimits.h
>
> #define LUA_NUM_TYPE float  /* default: double */
>
> 
>
> typedef unsigned short Instruction; /* default: long */
>
> 
>
> #define SIZE_INSTRUCTION        16 /* default: 32 */
>
> #define SIZE_B          5 /* default: 9 */
>
> 
>
> lundump.c
>
> #define TEST_NUMBER 3.14159265358979323846
>
> 
>
> Font:
>
> 
>
> char magic[4]  // 'FFFD'
>
> int tblsiz     // 256
>
> int nchars     // 
>
> byte chartbl[tblsiz] // infex of info
>
> FONTINFO info[nchars]
>
>   int x1,y1,x2,y2,base,dmy
>
> 
>
> int magic2     // 3
>
> int tex_w
>
> int tex_h
>
> byte tex[tex_w*tex_h]
