## Post #1
- Username: MattFiler
- Rank: ultra-n00b
- Number of posts: 8
- Joined date: Sat Jun 20, 2015 8:47 am
- Post datetime: 2016-01-13T08:00:57+00:00
- Post Title: .exe content help!

Is there anyone with the knowledge of how to work on .exe files that would be willing to help me out by taking a look at the Alien Isolation exe file? There's something disabled in there and I'd like to know if we'd be able to re-enable it. I don't know anything about modding .exe files so I'm kinda stuck.

Any help appreciated, thanks.
## Post #2
- Username: theclub654
- Rank: beginner
- Number of posts: 26
- Joined date: Wed Oct 14, 2015 8:57 am
- Post datetime: 2016-01-17T18:27:09+00:00
- Post Title: .exe content help!

learn assembly and c and c++ and do some practice and you'll start to undestand some of the code thats in a exe file
## Post #3
- Username: JinzoAdvance
- Rank: ultra-n00b
- Number of posts: 4
- Joined date: Tue Apr 05, 2016 4:28 am
- Post datetime: 2016-04-05T00:46:41+00:00
- Post Title: .exe content help!

I can't guarantee it will always work, but you could look into opening it up as an archive with 7zip.
## Post #4
- Username: WRS
- Rank: ultra-veteran
- Number of posts: 603
- Joined date: Fri Nov 06, 2009 7:13 am
- Post datetime: 2016-04-06T22:18:02+00:00
- Post Title: .exe content help!

your request is too vague, but heres a good starting point.

get familiar with a good debugger. i use ollydbg - [http://www.ollydbg.de/](http://www.ollydbg.de/)
load your exe and try to understand what you are doing by stepping through the instructions

next steps depend on what it is you want to do
