## Post #1
- Username: lionheartuk
- Rank: double-veteran
- Number of posts: 749
- Joined date: Wed May 17, 2006 5:55 am
- Post datetime: 2006-06-07T16:58:17+00:00
- Post Title: .kmd format? what is it???

In the PC version of Metal Gear SOlid the character models are saved in a file format called .KMD, .HZM,.LIT(which i assume means Lights) or MDX.
I have searched online for ALL of these formats but got no luck whatsoever.
I know that KMD is a fiel format made for compressing models as I found the KMD website where the company explains a bit.
THo I have found NO way to EXTRACT the models or to change their FORMAT ie to .3DS or .MDL ect..
So if anyone can shed any light on this then id be VER ratefull
Thankyou
## Post #2
- Username: lionheartuk
- Rank: double-veteran
- Number of posts: 749
- Joined date: Wed May 17, 2006 5:55 am
- Post datetime: 2006-06-17T10:11:51+00:00
- Post Title: .kmd format? what is it???

Il take it that no one else knows how to use this format either.
Maybe theres a KMD import plugin for 3D STUDIO MAX.
Tho I severilly doubt it.
If anyone knows ANYTHING about thisformat please say.
## Post #3
- Username: FaustWolf
- Rank: advanced
- Number of posts: 41
- Joined date: Sat Aug 18, 2007 7:48 am
- Post datetime: 2007-10-21T01:55:15+00:00
- Post Title: .kmd format? what is it???

Lionheart, this is, like, REALLY late, but I found the following ASCII string in Chrono Cross (PSX) recently, and it might be of interest:

[](http://imageshack.us)

It says "KMD" in there, in a possible reference to files laid out on the CD. Now, I know this is probably a false lead since we're talking about two completely different game companies and two completely different systems (console v. PC)...

BUT! Would anyone be able to provide me with a few example .KMDs so I could check for a .KMD header in Chrono Cross?
