## Post #1
- Username: b4ttl3m4st3r
- Rank: ultra-n00b
- Number of posts: 1
- Joined date: Thu Jan 20, 2011 6:31 pm
- Post datetime: 2011-01-20T10:51:01+00:00
- Post Title: .msh & .kfm-files from Ferentus, Herrcot, Xiones

Hello Community.

Im new here and I was redirected from Ogre Forums.
Personally Im a webprogrammer and Im not familiar with graphic engines so it would be really cool if someone
experienced can help me.

Actually Im working on a browser-based game derived from a former ORPG called Ferentus, Herrcot or Xiones.
The client from the original game came with some files (pictures) I can benefit from to style my browsergame as equal
as possible.
I converted the existing .bds-files to .dds files and then to .jpg-files. Worked fine.
Through my usage of these pictures I was confronted with some pictures which seem to be a kind of textures:



A_Lion_No01.jpg (112.47 KiB) Viewed 50 times



I figured out that these textures come with some .msh-files (mesh) and .kfm-files to appear in-game.
Soon i found out that mesh-files are used by graphic-engines, Ogre 3D Engine e.g.

Some days ago I was trying to get some help at Ogre forums but they told me that the Ogre 3D engine is not
using .msh- and .kfm-files and they've redirected me to this board.  

Basically I was trying to open the .msh-files with Blender and I tried to convert them into .xml-files but I had 
no luck with that

Im not even shure if all the files im trying to use are encoded or not. Maybe someone of you can help me with that.

Im sorry but I pretty have no experience with graphic engines.
It would be alot of saved work for me if I could open the files and make some screenshots of the rendered objects.

I have uploaded the files and they can be gathered here:
[http://uploaded.to/file/8qejjz](http://uploaded.to/file/8qejjz)
or here:
[http://rapidshare.com/files/442698528/lion.zip](http://rapidshare.com/files/442698528/lion.zip)

I hope it's ok that I've attached some share links and that I didnt broke any board rule by now.
Im just desperated and looking for some help in any way. Thanks.
