## Post #1
- Username: Dacentru
- Rank: ultra-n00b
- Number of posts: 4
- Joined date: Wed Oct 14, 2015 6:54 pm
- Post datetime: 2016-11-13T17:49:17+00:00
- Post Title: .PAC Monster Hunter Frontier

Hello !
I saw threads about the Monster Hunter Frontier .pac format but couldn't find answers as to how unpack it.
It looks like the .pac stores the monster's model and texture, here are some samples if someone wants to look at it. 

[https://www.mediafire.com/?4u66brlg9awuexh](https://www.mediafire.com/?4u66brlg9awuexh)
## Post #2
- Username: shakotay2
- Rank: MEGAVETERAN
- Number of posts: 4300
- Joined date: Fri Apr 20, 2012 4:24 pm
- Post datetime: 2016-11-13T21:04:47+00:00
- Post Title: .PAC Monster Hunter Frontier

I remember the times when this used to be a "research forum".  
What were your investigations so far?

With the hint from finale00 it's plain to see that there's a png from 0xC0B0 to 0x19406 in em016.pac:



C064.png (52.83 KiB) Viewed 125 times



btw: aluigi wrote on Zenhax that files containing 'ecd' are probably encrypted.
## Post #3
- Username: Dacentru
- Rank: ultra-n00b
- Number of posts: 4
- Joined date: Wed Oct 14, 2015 6:54 pm
- Post datetime: 2016-11-13T22:19:31+00:00
- Post Title: .PAC Monster Hunter Frontier

Thank you for your answer !
I just wanted to leave samples if somebody wanted to look at it. 

Sadly I'm not really talented with hex editors, I always end up doing something wrong and corrupt the file... 
So I looked briefly into the files (saw the "ecd" in em002.pac though I couldn't know what it was) but I didn't look enough for the png, I admit. :/

I also thought .pac files were perhaps "common" Capcom pc games files, like .arc in the 3DS Monster Hunter games for example.

Anyway thanks for taking the time to look at the files, and I'll try to be better with hex editors ! xD
