## Post #1
- Username: mrox2
- Rank: ultra-n00b
- Number of posts: 9
- Joined date: Sun Jan 23, 2011 6:09 pm
- Post datetime: 2017-01-29T22:11:23+00:00
- Post Title: .PET Model files (Used in Pangya and White Day)

.PET files are used in Pangya and White Day (2001), both games run on the WangReal Engine.
Only one Maxscript exist and its buggy, the .PET files include more than a model (at least for White Day), I've examined it in Hex.

.PET file structure order (header names):

*TEXT
*BONE
*ANIM
*MESH
*FANM
*Transitions?

Text is texture pointers (because they're not in the .PET but it points to them), Bone (obvious), Anim could be pointers to .MTN (motion files), Mesh, and FANM is face anim pointers (the game uses face textures to represent facial animations (2001 tech), Transitions.. I don't know.

Also here is an example of bones for one of the characters:

Ji-hyun (캐릭터_지현) BONE list

-Bip_jh
Bip_jh Pelvis
Bip_jh Spine
Bip_jh R Thigh
Bip_jh R Calf
Bip_jh R Foot
Bip_jh R Toe0
Dummy03
Bip_jh L Thigh
Bip_jh L Calf
Bip_jh L Foot
Bip_jh L Toe0
Dummy04
Bip_jh Spine1
Bip_jh Spine2
Bip_jh Neck
Bip_jh R Clavicle
Bip_jh R UpperArm
Bip_jh R Forearm
Bip_jh R Hand
Bip_jh R Finger0
Dummy01
Bip_jh L Clavicle
Bip_jh L UpperArm
Bip_jh L Forearm
Bip_jh L Hand
Bip_jh L Finger0
Dummy02
Bip_jh Head
Glass
Bone05
Bone15
Bone03
Bone04
Bone13
Bone14
Bone10
Bone11
Bone07
Bone08
Dummy05
Bip_jh Footsteps
jh_low
L_hand
R_hand

Pangya packs data in .PAK archives, there are extractors as far as I know.
White Day packs them in .NOP archives, there are unpackers and repackers and the engine so flexible and fun, if you make a nop file with a higher number the game loads the files inside this one instead of the small numbered ones.

[HSReina has the 3DSMax Importer and Pangya viewer](http://hsreina.shadosoft-tm.com/) (with download links) - Pangya viewer opens some white day models, with textures, animations but not exactly right, some vertices and faces are not loaded correctly and just stretch outside the viewport. (Will post images here)

Would be cool to have an importer/exporter for blender or at least a Noesis importer!
If anyone is interested I will provide file samples, thanks a lot in advance.
## Post #2
- Username: mrox2
- Rank: ultra-n00b
- Number of posts: 9
- Joined date: Sun Jan 23, 2011 6:09 pm
- Post datetime: 2017-01-30T00:20:58+00:00
- Post Title: .PET Model files (Used in Pangya and White Day)

Special thanks to HSReina, we have progress, his importer for 3DS Max import models perfectly with animations!
