## Post #1
- Username: lionheartuk
- Rank: double-veteran
- Number of posts: 749
- Joined date: Wed May 17, 2006 5:55 am
- Post datetime: 2006-10-10T16:04:55+00:00
- Post Title: .TGA Thumnail Viewer

Does anyone other then me get FED up with loading up Photoshop all the time to look at or edit .TGA files.

Well after searching about on google last night I found a TGA Thumbnail Viewer.
here is the site for anyone who has Problems or anything of the sort
[http://greggman.com/pages/thumbplug_tga.htm](http://greggman.com/pages/thumbplug_tga.htm)

> For those of you  that do not know what this is il explain
>
> :Basically if you have a JPEG or BMP image and you set the folder its insides view to Thumnail you will get to see a little Image of the picture, no need to open a program or anything like that.
>
> 
>
> Now naturally windows doesnt support ALL image formats, so TGA is unfortunatly not supported.
>
> Windows XP however has an open API so that you can create .DLL and reg files and then add them to your registry, this is one of the few things I like about Windows XP
This little program adds .TGA thumbnail view to your windows registry, So you can simply view them as thumbnails, which is HIGHLY helpful for me when I spend 3 minutes extracting 600 textures from Metal Gear Solid games I decided that loading them all into PHOTOSHOP was a lot of effort so i got this little Program so i could view them as thumbnails.

I have attached the file tot his post for all of you to freely take from me.
i didnt make it though so remember that, I just FOUND IT on the internet last night and decided that its a very useful piece of software.
> THERE IS NO WARRANTY HERE.  USE THIS AT YOUR OWN RISK!  THERE IS ALSO NO SUPPORT!
>
> 
>
> Notes:
>
> 
>
> The TGA(Targa) format supports many formats but most of them are pretty rare.  For example, TGA files can have their images stored in any direction, right to left, bottom to top, top to bottom, left to right.  They can also support 15 and 16 bit pixels.  But, in my personal experience, I've never seen a TGA file stored any way other than bottom to top + left to right.  I've also never personally used a 16 bit TGA file nor have I used or seen any of the other options.  Therefore, there is no support for those other formats in this plug in.That extract is the Disclaimer taken straight off the original site
[thumbplug_tga1.10.rar](https://xentaxbackup.github.io/file/905_thumbplug_tga1.10.rar)
## Post #2
- Username: mono24
- Rank: Site Admin
- Number of posts: 786
- Joined date: Mon Sep 13, 2004 8:55 am
- Post datetime: 2006-10-10T22:32:15+00:00
- Post Title: .TGA Thumnail Viewer

While you make it quite clear that you aren't the tool's author, you need to provide a link to the tool's (or the tool's author's) webpage. Not only does this ensure that anyone who wants to can contact the author/get more info on the program, it also prevents anyone from ignoring you disclaimers, accidentally or on purpose, and suing you or something.
## Post #3
- Username: lionheartuk
- Rank: double-veteran
- Number of posts: 749
- Joined date: Wed May 17, 2006 5:55 am
- Post datetime: 2006-10-10T23:26:17+00:00
- Post Title: .TGA Thumnail Viewer

> Reply from Dinoguy1000
>
> While you make it quite clear that you aren't the tool's author, you need to provide a link to the tool's (or the tool's author's) webpage. Not only does this ensure that anyone who wants to can contact the author/get more info on the program, it also prevents anyone from ignoring you disclaimers, accidentally or on purpose, and suing you or something.Yes that is a good point
At the time I couldnt find the site lol.
But i fixed it now, thanks for the heads up
