## Post #1
- Username: hegmannkris
- Rank: ultra-n00b
- Number of posts: 1
- Joined date: Thu Sep 24, 2020 2:30 pm
- Post datetime: 2020-09-24T06:37:37+00:00
- Post Title: .VB & .VH (Audio) File Research

These files are likely audio, as it is the standard format for PSX games, although it may have got changed up a bit when being ported to the PC considering PSounds, a PSX sound extracting tool, can't get anything out of them. I want to make it as [sonnerie](https://sonnerieportable.com/)

So far what has been discovered is that majority of the files are: raw 16bit pcm, mono, 11025hz, the remaining few being 22050hz which are the sounds for jingles.
Various sources on the PSX audio format say that VH is the head(er) and VB is the body file (which contains all the sounds).
## Post #2
- Username: ikskoks
- Rank: Moderator
- Number of posts: 1671
- Joined date: Fri Jul 27, 2012 12:06 am
- Post datetime: 2020-09-24T16:56:38+00:00
- Post Title: .VB & .VH (Audio) File Research

Don't know what exactly you are trying to achieve, but if you 
just need to edit some of these files then search the web for such tools:
- VabTool 2.1 (Vab File Editor)
- VAGEdit (VAG Editor)
- PSXSND.EXE
- Wav2Vag
- VAG Depack ( [viewtopic.php?f=17&t=2059](https://forum.xentax.com/viewtopic.php?f=17&t=2059) )

[https://imgur.com/a/HfdL8QZ](https://imgur.com/a/HfdL8QZ)

More info here:

> Tools:
>
> 
>
> 1. Wav2Vag - This is a simple program which stips off the header from
>
>              Windows format '.wav' files and then shells the Aiff2Vag
>
>              program with the correct options. It requires 16bit mono
>
>              wav files. It runs as a DOS program with command line
>
>              parameters.
>
> 
>
> 2. VABTool - This is a windows program to contruct/edit VAB files
>
> 
>
>              a) You can edit/add programs and tones.
>
>              b) You can set ADSR settings for tones.
>
>              c) You can add VAG format files to the sound data section
>
>                 of the VAB file.
>
>              d) You can edit '.VH' format VAB Headers.
>
>              e) You can join and split VH and VB format to VAB format.
>
>              f) You can preview sounds as you adjust them.
>
>              g) Supports the PCI Sound Artist Card.
>
>              h) DevKit preview tool added.
>
>     - NEW -  i) SEQ preview on PCI Sound Artist Card added.
