## Post #1
- Username: pixellegolas
- Rank: ultra-veteran
- Number of posts: 423
- Joined date: Tue Aug 12, 2008 6:30 am
- Post datetime: 2008-10-14T23:16:29+00:00
- Post Title: ZWEI 2

Hi!

I just got this game and tried ripping models but could not. So now I wonder if there is any possibility to extract models?

Here is a screenshot from game:



And here is a link to model files. At least they are in a folder called CHR that should be character.

[http://www.megaupload.com/?d=LGBGPGJZ](http://www.megaupload.com/?d=LGBGPGJZ)

They contain 3 file formats

.it3
.iti
.pak

I tried with game extractor and multiex and both of them found .jpg files in the .iti. But I want to know if there are more stuff in it and what the others contain

Thanks
pixel
## Post #2
- Username: fatduck
- Rank: mega-veteran
- Number of posts: 315
- Joined date: Thu Aug 03, 2006 5:07 am
- Post datetime: 2008-10-15T11:04:50+00:00
- Post Title: ZWEI 2

Is this a free MMORPG? I'm interested!

.it3 should be a model file
.iti is a jpg with extra 16bytes data
.pak is a empty file?? 0k mate!

1 set of files didn't do anything, anyway!
## Post #3
- Username: pixellegolas
- Rank: ultra-veteran
- Number of posts: 423
- Joined date: Tue Aug 12, 2008 6:30 am
- Post datetime: 2008-10-15T19:31:19+00:00
- Post Title: ZWEI 2

This is a single player game with no translation yet  But it really seems cool. Found it on....torr......ent 

I have not been able to rip with 3d ripper or 3d via printscreen. The only one left is gameassassin witch i don't have.

Hm, the .iti should contain more.

I found a file that is 6.5mb and inside i found 2 .jpg files that are total 514kb. IT has to be some more stuff in it
